✅ SQL Concepts Covered
SELECT, WHERE, ORDER BY, LIMIT, DISTINCT
LIKE, BETWEEN, IN, NOT IN
GROUP BY, HAVING
Aggregate functions: SUM, COUNT, MIN, MAX, AVG
Subqueries: single and multi-level

🟢 Level 1: Basics (1–10)

1 List all products that cost more than 50.
-   SELECT * FROM Products
    WHERE UnitPrice > 50;
    7 rows returned

2 Show all customers whose company name starts with "B".
-   SELECT * FROM Customers
    WHERE CompanyName LIKE 'B%';
    7 rows returned

3 Display the first 5 products sorted by unit price descending.
-   SELECT * FROM Products
    ORDER BY UnitPrice DESC
    LIMIT 5;
    5 Rows returned

4 Find all products with units in stock between 10 and 20.
-   SELECT * FROM Products
    WHERE UnitsInStock BETWEEN 10 AND 20;
    17 rows returned

5 Show customers located in Mexico.
-   SELECT * FROM Customers
    WHERE Country = 'Mexico';
    5 rows returned

6 Get all product names that contain the word "cheese".
-   SELECT ProductName FROM Products
    WHERE ProductName LIKE '%cheese%';
    nothing was retunred checeks manually and did not find cheese for product name

7 Find all orders with OrderID greater than 10250.
-   SELECT * FROM Orders
    WHERE OrderID > 10250;
    827 rows returned

8 List all products with exactly 0 units on order.
-   SELECT * FROM Products
    WHERE UnitsOnOrder = 0;
    60 rows returned

9 Show the 3 most recent orders (based on OrderDate).
-   SELECT * FROM Orders
    ORDER BY OrderDate DESC
    LIMIT 3;
    three rows returned. all matching 5-6-1998 as the newest order

10 Show all products where the product name ends in 's'.
-   SELECT * FROM Products
    WHERE ProductName LIKE '%s';
    9 rows all ending in s



🟡 Level 2: Filtering & Aggregation (11–20)

Count how many customers are in the database.

Find the average unit price of all products.

Show the maximum quantity ever ordered (from Order Details).

Find all products where UnitPrice is less than the average UnitPrice.

List product IDs that appear more than 3 times in Order Details.

Show products that have been ordered at least once.

Show the product with the minimum units in stock.

Find all product names with UnitPrice equal to the highest price.

Find all customers whose CustomerID contains the letter "A".

List all unique cities from the Customers table.

🟠 Level 3: GROUP BY (21–30)

Count how many products each supplier supplies.

Show the total quantity ordered per product.

Find the number of orders per customer.

List categories with more than 5 products.

Show the average unit price per category.

Count how many orders there are per year.

List the total quantity per OrderID where the quantity > 30.

List suppliers where the average product price is under 20.

Show the total number of units in stock per category.

Show how many products each product name appears with (hint: GROUP BY ProductName).


🔵 Level 4: HAVING (31–37)

Find products that have been ordered more than 200 units in total.

Find customers who placed more than 5 orders.

Find categories where the average price is greater than 40.

Find suppliers who supply fewer than 3 products.

List orders with more than 5 items in them.

Show all products that have an average quantity per order > 30.

Find customers whose average order quantity is under 20.


🟣 Level 5: Single-Level Subqueries (38–44)

Show the name of the most expensive product.

Find all products with a unit price equal to the average.

Show customers who placed the most recent order.

List all products that have never been ordered.

Show products that cost more than any product in category 2.

Show orders that were placed after the most recent order from CustomerID "ALFKI".

Show all products with units in stock equal to the minimum.


🔴 Level 6: Nested Subqueries (45–50)

Find product names ordered in the order with the highest total quantity.

Find customers who have only placed one order.

Find the average unit price of products ordered by customers from Brazil.

Find the name of the customer who ordered the most quantity.

Show the product name of the most frequently ordered product.

Show the customer with the highest average quantity per product ordered.
